---
layout: post
date: '2018-08-25 06:00:00 -0700'
title: 'Diaspora'
author: [Erik Hess]
categories: [technology]
tags: [twitter, mastodon, micro.blog, instagram]
banner: venn.jpg 
caption: "Review of Symbolic Logic, by John Venn, 1840. [The London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science](https://archive.org/stream/londonedinburg5121881lond/londonedinburg5121881lond#page/61/mode/1up)"
issue:
---

No, not that Diaspora.

I've followed the herd to Mastodon, and it's new and strange and interesting and more than a bit confusing. Like Micro.blog, Mastodon falls in Twitter's uncanny valley. It's just similar enough that when something is different the experience is more than a bit jarring.

Unfortunately, where I was previously avoiding one social network I've now found myself needing to avoid three of them. Each network has a subset of my friends, each does a subset of social tasks well, and each demands a subset of my time and attention. Unfortunately, it's not clear where things should go anymore. 

Instagram does great for pictures and for being a generally positive upbeat place. It offers a simple interface that's oriented around quickly posting and viewing square pictures of things. It lets you comment and send direct messages. It also lets you post stories, which I still don't completely understand from a UI or social perspective. 80% of my friends are here, but only a small fraction are active.

Micro.blog seems focused on short-form writing and open discussion. You can favorite posts or follow people but the authors will never know, because they don't want to encourage Twitter-style virality. They have a nice iOS app, but I like using Icro. They also encourage photo-posts, and even micro-podcasts through their apps Sunlit and Wavelength. Maybe 20% of my friends are there, and 5% are active.

Mastodon is a crazy federated Twitter-like mess. Using it feels the most like Twitter used to feel. I'm using Amaroq on iOS and it works pretty well. If "Tootbot" was an actual thing I think this might be my only platform. 80% of my friends are here (or somewhere in the greater fediverse - who knows if we'll ever find each other, but we might find one of the eight defunct accounts we all seem to have). One thing Mastodon seems to lack is semi-private and moderately trustworthy direct messaging.

On top of all that, there's this blog. In theory, it would be great to originate everything here and provide one place where anyone can go to find me and what I've been up to. It would be great to syndicate this out to all the other places I'm scattered across the social web. Wouldn't it be nice to get a notification when someone referred to a post you wrote or a picture you put up in your own internet home? It seems webmentions isn't widely accepted enough to handle that yet.
